---
layout: post
title:  "Please don’t ruin it for everyone, 
tech leakers”
date:   2020-05-28 09:01:46 -0700
categories: personal
---

First things first, I'll glance at leaks of products when they blitz past my screen. As someone who has always followed tech, of course I'm interested in knowing what's going to be released soon. That being said I find it a real shame that the hard work of so many people gets ruined by a few over zealous people looking to make a name for themselves.

## The problem 

The problem I see with leaks, like the ones we see about new Apple products, is that behind these giant pieces of glass that we tap on all day are real people who worked tirelessly on them. They’re excited about being able to show the world what they’ve been working on. The feeling of accomplishment and knowing that your hard work is now on stage being shown off to the world. I can not imagine how cool that must feel. However, before the stage lights up and the world focuses on the keynote speaker, everyone already knows what is going to be said and shown before it even happens. 

Unfortunately there’s groups of people who are willing to spoil it for everyone and leak this confidential information. As a consumer, I love the sense of excitement and surprise of a new product or software announcement. It seriously spoils the fun when I know all about the new iPhone before Apple can even announce it themselves. I can’t imagine what it feels like to be working on something just to find out every single detail of it has been posted on Twitter. It’s a real shame to take that away from the people who have worked so hard on something for so long. 

## Leakers 
I want to take this moment though to speak about what _I_ find so troubling about "professional leakers”. There’s been a lot of them over the years and most noticeable are the ones that focus on Apple. Lately however, there’s been an influx of people who have had incredible track records of getting this information correct. I would assume they’re getting this information from someone inside the company then sharing said information when they need a social media boost. 

Those sharing are taking this information and putting it in front the world. I’m not really sure what the benefit of it is though. I don’t think the excuse of “It helps the consumer in their buying decision” holds much water. 

Ultimately though it takes away from those who are working on whatever has been leaked and reported, and that sucks. I’ll come to this more at the end but I think it’s super important. 


## Internal Leakers 
I couldn’t come up with a better term than _internal leaker_ but I consider these people the ones who are inside a company freely handing out confidential information to those willing to post it online. 

Those taking confidential information about a product are really just ruining it for everyone. The people who sit beside you designing the next piece of hardware or the person writing code to release that next cool feature and everything in between. There are people working endlessly to create what we all drool after. Sharing this information before it is officially announced only hurts the ones around you. 
